Hi friends. In this video,
we are going to see how to send mail alert based on your requirement.
Suppose in my case,
I'm taking one example.
That is how one prod server,
let's say that isn't running status.
And suppose if because of some reason in case if it enters into Stop At the time,
I want to get mail alert.
Then how you can do these things with your lambda, right?
So first I will start with your basic information that, you know, already.
Write your Lambda code.
And already we have seen that right in these two videos.
Right?
Now I'm going to work with a different concept.
So the first thing,
you're going to write your code using lambda function.
You know, lambda function needs one IAM role instead of your programmatic access keys.
Now our concept is we are going to write a function to
get easy to instance status and you want to send that to me.
That means you are roles should have a policies such that easy to access and SNS,
because here I am going to use SMS to send your mains.
First, let me check it whether I'm having a role or not with this information.
So this is my role.
I mean, under my roles,
let me open one of the roll-call male alert lambda.
So here if you observe in our policies,
I attach a two policies.
One is for your EC2 full axis and one is for my SNS full axis, right?
So you knew in order to give full access,
you can read only read access because you are going to try to get the status.
That's fine.
Now create a lambda with moto three of
Python is application of your lambda.
Don't forget to assign your role to your lambda.
Because if you don't assign role,
you will get an error exception like you are are to having permissions
or you are not the authorized user or you don't now
punish and denied something like that, you will get an exception.
That fine. Let me open my lambda console.
I'm going to create a new function here.
Create a function.
Let me start from scratch a 100 mili function.
Namely suppose male alert for broad servers less,
I'm going to walk with one server.
You can test your concept by applying this for multiple servers.
Kind of specificity.
Lee, I'm going to work with one server.
Let me take that server instance ID.
Suppose this is Instance ID I want to use in my case. Okay?
Now, in newer lambda,
yes, it's creating write.
Once it is created, Let me take it.
For instance, IT S, it has been created.
Once it is created, you know,
you just go on and use your rule for your use
existing role and selective or what is your role?
Male alert, lambda role. Just save it.
And before going to save it,
let me change the execution time to suppose some five minutes,
three seconds, or five minutes, simply.
The trick.
Now come here. I mean, you are lambda.
So guys here first tried to get for particularly EC2 instance, that status.
So first I will manually check the code.
I mean, I will run this manually.
And after that I will show you how automatically you
can get mail alerts whenever you feel your sorrow state.
Reached to stop.
Find, let me import my moto three.
So I need easily to console, right?
And case here I'm going to use resource method
and I'm not going to create any session object
because by default your session will be
created based on your role with the help of your Bhutto three,
so directly use birthrate dot a resource.
You are EC2, then work under US east region.
That's it. Now I need some SNS.
I'm going to create a sentence using client as of now guys,
you don't know how to work with your SNS.
But while going forward I will upload the videos for or even SNS also.
But for time being, just try to understand how to work with,
I mean, just see the aligns Nazi moto three.
I'm using client for this.
I mean, I wanted to work with us and as let say,
suppose US East One.
That's it. Now guys,
I have to work with one single EC2 instance, right?
So V, How already one separate section to work with to one EC2 instance.
It just to go through this video so that you will get how
to work with one EC2 instance, right?
So now I'm going to create my required instance from
your institute console dot instant just to provide you an instance ID that's right.
Now let me print the current status of your instance.
And I want to exactly only the status name.
I don't want to get a core.
Save it and tested before going to test it,
it needs at least one dummy event.
You are lambda function.
Whether you are going to use your eventing our core or not, that's a secondary.
Markets need at least one dummy.
Test it, and check, check the,
your current status of your EC2 instance.
So yeah, it has been executed.
See, now you're getting your instance dataset stop.
If you observe here it is in stop and status.
Right?
Now let me run it and see the status when you are using your lambda moto three chord.
Okay, let me start it.
So anyway will enter into some different status.
Now I'm going to read on our core and see the output instead of stop,
you will get some different value pending. Yes, it's working.
Our code is working. Now I want to send
this information to my mail surveys you can send already.
You have your SNS client, right?
Just simply use public, sorry, publish.
Target, yea or N. So what is this year and means C, you know,
you can send your mails using your SNS subscribers through the help of topic, right?
So what I am doing is I already have a SNS topic in my AWS.
So I will use that SNS ER and to send my mail.
So as, as a as an analyst had been right,
you already might know about this,
how to create topics are now to create subscriptions on auto send mails, right?
I mean, this through this in case if you are not aware of with this,
how to create topic sand,
to create a subscribe subscriptions, all those things,
just you, your comment with
your your messages to you in the form of comments so that I will prepare a video for you.
Okay.
That's okay.
Not just go here and provide your year and offer that.
What is the message you want to send?
So I want to send the messages of whatever the message I am getting here.
That message I want to send to my mail lady.
That's it.
Just save it.
And current status of your EC2 instances running.
See that?
So now as of now I don't have any mail alerts here from my topic.
Now let me run the score and ticket.
Yeah, something wrong.
What is that?
Target year and water. How given?
Spell mystic. Darn get.
That's fine. Save it and test it.
Successfully executed, right, just to go and see you. Let me refresh it.
My email IDC, you've got one new made edible is notification,
a message that is running, right?
So immensely, you'll get it guys here.
My net somewhat slow today.
So that's why it's somewhat late.
But you will get in fraction of seconds your status pending status is there.
But here guys, if you anyway, you're getting right,
but here what you are doing is you are running
your core manual and you are able to get your mails.
But I don't want to get in that way.
Whenever my EC2 instance state is stopped automatically,
I want to run the score and I want to get this status.
That means I want to trigger this whenever my instances goes stop state.
So for that guys, what you had to do easy just to go to your CloudWatch.
Just create one rule.
Okay.
Now, they saw while working,
I know where we work, right?
Yeah, here. So we focus on what you are.
Cloudwatch, right?
And even here also I explained something like how to create a symbol.
You can follow that so that you can create a your IAM bolts. That's fine.
Just come here. So create rule.
What is the rule you want to create?
So schedule you're not going to schedule it.
I mean, just check it off for every one hour,
two hours, three hours.
Not in that way. Exempt status.
Whenever if the steady change to stop,
then only I want to get automatically ME letter.
That's why you have to use pattern event a pattern.
What is this event festival?
So k, suppose your AWS,
we'll create some events, nothing but some data.
Whenever something happens, suppose you are going to upload some data to your S3.
So some action is doing right at that time automatically.
What is happening?
That data will be captured by your AWS and that is called the event.
Now the same way, suppose I am going to stop my EC2 instance.
Some action is doing,
some data is modifying that data will be captured as an event with your AWS.
That's it.
Now my requirement is I want to capture
that data and I want to pass that data to my editor is lambda.
So now see, just select for what service you want to capture the data or event.
So I wanted to capture for my EC2 instance,
what even you want to capture only stayed chain notification.
All changes are specific change.
So I need specific change only whenever if it is stop. All instances.
For one instance, I want to work with only 41 instance.
So varies, for instance, ID.
Let me get it from here.
Okay? Then as Pacific, right, fine.
And then it will capture whenever my
easy to instance reach it to stop restate it will do in the form of this data.
In this way.
That data I want to pass to my lambda functions.
So our target. Now check,
then configure your details.
Then do some rule, rule name.
Mainly alert for broad servers.
Someday, description, create rule.
Now you have been created rule,
so how it will work.
So as of no,
your instances running note in case by chance,
if this instance going down,
I mean stop, then automatically you are CloudWatch will get the that information.
I mean, stop with straight information.
And you've created a rule.
What is that rule? This rule will trigger your lambda whenever he would.
Instances stalled because you are configuring this only for stop the status.
And this data will pass to your lambda as an event variable.
Now if you have done your lambda,
you are having one event.
No, this is a variable.
So this variable value is nothing but now this one,
this information will come and store into your event variable.
If you want to use now this event,
you can use it. As of now.
I am not going to use and I don't have any dependency on that.
Only triggering I need.
So that regrettable done by your edible is
CloudWatch automatically whenever you are instances stop.
Now if you observe you guys here,
you known enough this part,
you don't bother about what is the status you are taking.
By automatically, this code will execute whenever you are easier to instance, God's stop.
That's it.
Now in order to write any logic year only,
just right to send stride forward,
some status, some message.
So this lambda will execute whenever you are EC2 instance in stop.
And I can say that at that time now your EC2 instances stopped status.
That's it. Just save it.
Now you don't have anything. Just to go and assume because of some reason,
you are instances going to down let me stop before going into that,
let me remove my previously and got males from my topic.
Now, let me manually stop.
Just imagine that you are not doing this because of some reason,
your instance, god, stop.
Just assume that in that way.
So you are stopping. But just unexpected f-stop.
Then just wait here and see.
Once it is successfully stopped.
Let me refresh it.
Still it is stopping once it is stopped,
but then only you will get a male because you are given a rule.
Stop Yesterday's top right.
Just to go here.
See, you got just known mainly.
Now the instance status means topless status. That's it.
In case if you run your instance,
but now you don't get it because you are event,
you configured your lambda2 trigger only if your event to
reach you to stop the status. Now I'm running, no.
Let me wait up to my instance reachable running status.
But during this you won't get any ME running, right?
See, you're not getting any Miles.
You won't get it because you configured only if you instances reaches top.
Right.
Now I once again, I will go and stop it.
I stopped right just after here.
You will get an email alert.
Now, once you successfully reach you to stop,
the status is still it is in stopping.
Stop right? Now, just wait here.
You will get an email alert now.
Just refresh it.
Seek you got it.
Right.
So previously May 1,
now you are having second male under same main, right?
So now the instances Installed status, right?
This is just how you got into his previous, maybe.
That's
a
right.
So in this way you can configure your lambda
such that you can trigger your lambda based on some events.
Okay? So where are you going forward?
We will see lot of events,
how you can configure and how you can do that.
So probably our next concept is like for complaints purpose,
just imagine that you are having one easy to one security group.
And for that security group,
in case if you're inbound got change of than you are required quote,
then are the time automatically I need to send a mail alert.
Then how you can send that?
We will see in our next video.
Okay.
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.